# <b>Project Background</b>

In order to study the expression and regulation of genes in cells more directly and deeply, scholars put forward the concept of reporter gene, and developed many widely used and mature reporter gene systems based on this. The luciferase lux， which found in the vibrio genome, is also a member of the systems. 

Compared with the reporter gene GFP commonly used in the academic world today, although luciferase lux is not dominant in brightness, its characteristic that it can spontaneously light only with aliphatic aldehydes as substrate without excitation light undoubtedly provides the possibility for it to be used in some special occasions. 

EvolvR, a system that can continuously diversify all nucleotides within a tunable window length at user-defined site, is an attractive method for continuously directed evolution. Our project attempts to conduct directed evolution of luciferase lux of Marine Vibrio FG-1 isolated from the Yellow Sea by using EvolvR system, aiming to explore a luciferase mutant with better potential performance and various luminescence spectrum. In addition, multiple gRNAs-guided EvolvR system is of great application value. However, due to the problem of genetic instability in the construction process of multiple gRNA, we propose the idea of using ELSA (Extra-long sgRNA Arrays) to help build multiple gRNAs-guided EvolvR system. We envision that a stable multiple gRNAs-guided EvolvR system will provide a new strategy for simultaneous evolution of multiple genes, such as metabolic pathways. 

In our project, we tried to construct a method to mutate certain specific sites of Lux gene by using EvolvR system, so as to directionally evolve certain characteristics of Lux gene, such as its luminous wavelength and luminous intensity. 
